---
title: Gene Co-expression Networks
summary: Construction and analysis of GCNs using machine learning algorithms.
tags:
  - GCN
date: '2019-11-01T00:00:00Z'

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ''

image:
  caption: Gene Co-expression Networks of U. maydis
  focal_point: Smart



# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides: GCN
---

Gene expression is one of the most conserved and important processes in living organisms. This process allows the transcription and translation of information stored in DNA into functional products such as proteins.
Gene expression has been measured at the genomic scale by means of microarrays and RNA sequencing. Over the years this information has been stored in specialized databases such as NCBI's GEO and SRA, which in recent years have seen a considerable increase in the amount of available data.
On the other hand, recent approaches have shown that the underlying properties of organisms can only be explained by studying them as complex systems, so a network perspective has been proposed to study the biological relationships of an organism at different levels.
In particular, gene co-expression networks tend to take on great relevance in recent years due to the increase in experimental information generated by microarray and RNAseq techniques. In these networks, each node represents a gene and the edge or interaction is the relationship between each pair of nodes due to a significant co-expression value between them. These networks allow the identification of patterns or modules of genes that are co-expressed and that may have a similar biological function. In addition, these modules may be related to biological functions of industrial, medical and academic interest.
In recent years, machine learning algorithms have had great growth due to their applicability to different types of structured data. In addition, these types of algorithms can generalize and predict new data. The application of these algorithms has expanded to areas such as Biology, in which they allow the identification of new drug targets, the identification of gene promoters or transcription factors.
We seek to process this information to identify these genetic co-expression networks using different methods such as WGCNA and genetic algorithms coupled with biclustering. Which are applied to different data sets including bacteria, fungi and cancer types, with the aim of identifying important gene sets.